_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
### So who are you?

<img srcset="{{ site.url }}/assets/images/headshot@2x.jpg 2x" src="{{ site.url }}/assets/images/headshot.jpg" alt="Profile photo" class="profile-image" />

My name is Chen Hui Jing. I first dipped my toe into the waters of web development when I built my first HTML website in 2008 for the Malaysia Basketball Association. 

From there, I discovered the existence of content management systems and migrated the site over to Drupal. I stopped working on the site a year later and put my web development journey on hold (the original site no longer exists either). 

After a 4-year sabbatical (from web development), I decided to restart this journey by diving in head-first this time. In September of 2013, I got a job in the web industry and this website chronicles my experiences as I learn new things, fail spectacularly and make cool stuff along the way.

I also co-organise Talk.CSS, a meetup around all things CSS, with [Chris Lienert](https://twitter.com/cliener). The idea for Talk.CSS was born on the [Kopi.JS](http://kopijs.org/) slack channel on October 26, 2015 and within 2 hours, we had a [logo](https://github.com/Singapore-CSS/logo), a [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Singapore-CSS/discussions), a [Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Singapore-CSS/) account, a venue for the meetup and a couple speakers. Colour us efficient <span class="emoji" role="img" tabindex="0" aria-label="smiling face with sunglasses">&#x1F60E;</span>.

Right now, I'm a Developer Advocate for [Nexmo](https://www.nexmo.com/), as well as a [Mozilla Techspeaker](https://events.mozilla.org/techspeakers).

### Anything not related to the web?

Sure. I love playing basketball and did so full-time for 6 years until the end of 2011. I still play recreationally now and will continue to do so until my legs say otherwise.

I also love to [draw](http://cyern.deviantart.com), though I do less of it now. At one point in time, I customised canvas sneakers for friends and some random clients under the name FUZN designs. The [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/fuzndesigns?fref=ts) still exists, though on an indefinite hiatus.

I play a lot of video games as well, mostly on my PC now since I built my own gaming rig in 2012 (It's still running beautifully, might I add). I also got myself a PS3, almost 10 years after it was first released to play a bunch of exclusives I always wanted. 

Oh, and I cycle everywhere on my trusty second-hand Muji commuter bicycle.

### Elsewhere on the interwebs

<p class="no-margin">Some lovely human beings were willing to hear what I had to say, or thought I was reasonably interesting to write about, so thank you to these people. <span class="emoji" role="img" tabindex="0" aria-label="hugging face">&#x1F917;</span></p>

<ul>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105035545/http://www.tomboy-tarts.com/tomboy-tirade-ep-72-comedy-podcast-beam-me-up-f-sayanee-basu-and-chen-huijing/">Ep 72: Beam me up f. Sayanee Basu and Chen Hui Jing</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105034900/http://compassloft.com/2016/11/07/from-ball-to-code/">From Ball to Code</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105040057/https://live.webuild.sg/040-huijing-chen/">We Build LIVE 040 Huijing Chen</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://www.techinasia.com/talk/developer-spotlight-chen-huijing">Basketball led her to front-end engineering. Passion kept her there.</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://github.com/web-standards-ru/podcast/blob/master/episodes/episode-139.md">Web standards podcast: Episode #139</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://mediatemple.net/blog/tips/the-web-layout-revolution-with-css/">The Web Layout Revolution: An Interview with Chen Hui Jing</a></li>
</ul>

### So how was this site built?

With blood, sweat and tears! Nah, I'm just kidding.

This is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) site, hosted on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). It was built after months of procrastination and hours upon hours of pressing ⌘-⇧-R, resizing windows, googling and of course, actual coding. This site is a constant work-in-progress as I add tweaks, features and content. 

Since Jekyll is a static site generator, everything here is HTML, CSS and JS. 

No PHP, no Ruby, no Python, nilch.

Commit message:

Update about page because times have changed

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
### So who are you?

<img srcset="{{ site.url }}/assets/images/headshot@2x.jpg 2x" src="{{ site.url }}/assets/images/headshot.jpg" alt="Profile photo" class="profile-image" />

My name is Chen Hui Jing. I first dipped my toe into the waters of web development when I built my first HTML website in 2008 for the Malaysia Basketball Association. 

From there, I discovered the existence of content management systems and migrated the site over to Drupal. I stopped working on the site a year later and put my web development journey on hold (the original site no longer exists either). 

After a 4-year sabbatical (from web development), I decided to restart this journey by diving in head-first this time. In September of 2013, I got a job in the web industry and this website chronicles my experiences as I learn new things, fail spectacularly and make cool stuff along the way.

I also founded [Talk.CSS](https://singaporecss.github.io), a meetup around all things CSS, with [Chris Lienert](https://twitter.com/cliener), and now run it with my best mate, [Gao Wei](https://twitter.com/wgao19).

The idea for Talk.CSS was born on the [Kopi.JS](http://kopijs.org/) slack channel on October 26, 2015 and within 2 hours, we had a [logo](https://github.com/Singapore-CSS/logo), a [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Singapore-CSS/discussions), a [Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Singapore-CSS/) account, a venue for the meetup and a couple speakers. Colour us efficient <span class="emoji" role="img" tabindex="0" aria-label="smiling face with sunglasses">&#x1F60E;</span>.

Right now, I'm a Developer Advocate for [Nexmo](https://www.nexmo.com/), as well as a [Mozilla Techspeaker](https://events.mozilla.org/techspeakers).

### Anything not related to the web?

Sure. I love playing basketball and did so full-time for 6 years until the end of 2011. I have since retorn my ACL and have officially “hung them up”, or a direct translation of 高挂球鞋。Thankfully, Wei got me into climbing. She's [very good at it](https://instagram.com/_weiclimbs).

I also love to [draw](http://cyern.deviantart.com), though I do less of it now. At one point in time, I customised canvas sneakers for friends and some random clients under the name FUZN designs. The [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/fuzndesigns?fref=ts) still exists, though on an indefinite hiatus.

I play a lot of video games as well, mostly on my PC now since I built my own gaming rig in 2012 (It's still running beautifully, might I add). I also got myself a PS3, almost 10 years after it was first released to play a bunch of exclusives I always wanted. 

Oh, and I cycle everywhere on my trusty second-hand Muji commuter bicycle.

### Elsewhere on the interwebs

<p class="no-margin">Some lovely human beings were willing to hear what I had to say, or thought I was reasonably interesting to write about, so thank you to these people. <span class="emoji" role="img" tabindex="0" aria-label="hugging face">&#x1F917;</span></p>

<ul>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105035545/http://www.tomboy-tarts.com/tomboy-tirade-ep-72-comedy-podcast-beam-me-up-f-sayanee-basu-and-chen-huijing/">Ep 72: Beam me up f. Sayanee Basu and Chen Hui Jing</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105034900/http://compassloft.com/2016/11/07/from-ball-to-code/">From Ball to Code</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20170105040057/https://live.webuild.sg/040-huijing-chen/">We Build LIVE 040 Huijing Chen</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://www.techinasia.com/talk/developer-spotlight-chen-huijing">Basketball led her to front-end engineering. Passion kept her there.</a></li>
  <li class="no-margin"><a href="https://github.com/web-standards-ru/podcast/blob/master/episodes/episode-139.md">Web standards podcast: Episode #139</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://mediatemple.net/blog/tips/the-web-layout-revolution-with-css/">The Web Layout Revolution: An Interview with Chen Hui Jing</a></li>
</ul>

### So how was this site built?

With blood, sweat and tears! Nah, I'm just kidding.

This is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) site, hosted on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). It was built after months of procrastination and hours upon hours of pressing ⌘-⇧-R, resizing windows, googling and of course, actual coding. This site is a constant work-in-progress as I add tweaks, features and content. 

Since Jekyll is a static site generator, everything here is HTML, CSS and JS. 

No PHP, no Ruby, no Python, nilch.
