_drafts/drupal-101-improving-content-authoring.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Drupal 101: Improving the content authoring experience"
date: April 10, 2015
tags: [drupal, ux]
---
The latest episode of [Jen Simmons'](http://jensimmons.com/) wonderful podcast [The Web Ahead](http://thewebahead.net/101) featured content strategist [Eileen Webb](http://webmeadow.com/). Good stuff from start to finish, you should really check it out. There was one particular point that resonated with me, when they talked about user experience of people whose job is to add content to the website.

>Not to get super philosophical, but capitalism isn't really keen on improving working conditions for employees. It's not super excited about spending money and energy on making things nicer for the people who you are paying.  
― Eileen Webb on The Web Ahead

Drupal comes with a lot of out-of-the-box functionality that can help make the content editing experience less confusing, provided we, as developers, use them. Placing an emphasis on the content authoring experience will undoubtedly impact the way we build our sites, but I believe this is for the better. And I'm not the only one, which is why Drupal 8 will be shipping with a [plethora of improvements](http://wimleers.com/article/drupal-8-structured-content-authoring-experience) on the content authoring front.

But let's talk about Drupal 7 for now. I am definitely guilty of occasionally building functionality in a way that made things easy for me as a developer but complicated things for the content editor. In hindsight, I've realised that such decisions were short-sighted and usually came back to bite me later on. If I can help make the content editors' lives easier, they're more willing to use and explore the system on their own. It also means less support tickets for me to resolve.

###Take time to plan the content model
Ever encountered a content creation process as confusing  


###Provide clear instructions in the help text

Commit message:

Added work section to site

_drafts/drupal-101-improving-content-authoring.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Drupal 101: Improving the content authoring experience"
date: April 10, 2015
tags: [drupal, ux]
category: planet-drupal
---
Episode 101 of [Jen Simmons'](http://jensimmons.com/) wonderful podcast [The Web Ahead](http://thewebahead.net/101) featured content strategist [Eileen Webb](http://webmeadow.com/). Good stuff from start to finish, you should really check it out. There was one particular point that resonated with me, when they talked about user experience of people whose job is to add content to the website.

>Not to get super philosophical, but capitalism isn't really keen on improving working conditions for employees. It's not super excited about spending money and energy on making things nicer for the people who you are paying.  
― Eileen Webb on The Web Ahead

Drupal comes with a lot of out-of-the-box functionality that can help make the content editing experience less confusing, provided we, as developers, use them. Placing an emphasis on the content authoring experience will undoubtedly impact the way we build our sites, but I believe this is for the better. And I'm not the only one, which is why Drupal 8 will be shipping with a [plethora of improvements](http://wimleers.com/article/drupal-8-structured-content-authoring-experience) on the content authoring front.

But let's talk about Drupal 7 for now. I am definitely guilty of occasionally building functionality in a way that made things easy for me as a developer but complicated things for the content editor. In hindsight, I've realised that such decisions were short-sighted and usually came back to bite me later on. If I can help make the content editors' lives easier, they're more willing to use and explore the system on their own. It also means less support tickets for me to resolve.

###Take time to plan the content model
If the content creation process is harder than navigating a labyrinth, then we're doing something wrong. This is where some user research would be helpful. The users, in this case, are the content editors. Often, the user research focuses heavily on the end-user, the people who visit the website, but I found that the most effective solution marries the needs of the visitors with those of the content editors.

Once we find out the type of content that is most relevant and useful to the visitor, we need to build the site in such a way that makes it easy for the content editors to create such content. If 

###Provide clear instructions in the help text
