_drafts/video-games-ux.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "On video games and user experience"
date: March 12, 2016
tags: [opinion]
---

I love video games. Maybe I don't play them as much as I used to, but I've been playing video games longer than any of my friendships (siblings don't count). My first video game was an educational game called Treasure by xx, but I soon moved on to games that had significantly less educational value and exponentially more entertainment value, like Commander Keen and Doom. 

It's safe to say that video games made me computer literate. Back then, almost all our games came from shareware on floppy disks. I was probably all of 5 or 6 years old, and at that age, nobody wanted me touching the family PC. But I had sneaked up on my older brother and peeked at the commands he entered to run the games. No prizes for guessing what happened when he left the room.

Eventually, the grown-ups realised that I wouldn't make the computer explode, so they let me muck around the PC quite freely. It's been more than 20 years since, and on my most recent trip back home, I went on a retro-rampage and tried to dust off some of my favourite old games for a trip down memory lane. Some worked, while others couldn't. That's why I'm such a fan of GOG.com, best place to get all your old childhood favourites.

One of my favourite genres was the city-building games, the entire Sierra games series from Caesar III until Zeus, Age of Empires and Settlers 3.

Commit message:

Update draft post on ux and video games

_drafts/video-games-ux.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "On video games and user experience"
date: March 12, 2016
tags: [opinion]
---

I love video games. Maybe I don't play them as much as I used to, but I've been playing video games longer than any of my friendships (siblings don't count). My first video game was an educational game called Treasure by xx, but I soon moved on to games that had significantly less educational value and exponentially more entertainment value, like Commander Keen and Doom. 

It's safe to say that video games made me computer literate. Back then, almost all our games came from shareware on floppy disks. I was probably all of 5 or 6 years old, and at that age, nobody wanted me touching the family PC. But I had sneaked up on my older brother and peeked at the commands he entered to run the games. No prizes for guessing what happened when he left the room.

Eventually, the grown-ups realised that I wouldn't make the computer explode, so they let me muck around the PC quite freely. It's been more than 20 years since, and on my most recent trip back home, I went on a retro-rampage and tried to dust off some of my favourite old games for a trip down memory lane. Some worked, while others couldn't. That's why I'm such a fan of GOG.com, best place to get all your old childhood favourites.

One of my favourite genres was the city-building games, the entire Sierra games series from Caesar III onwards, Age of Empires and Settlers 3. I still don't understand why the genre seemed to die off, but that's a different topic for a time. So I managed to get Settlers 3 to boot up on the old family PC and since it'd been what, 15 years? I started off with the tutorial level, just to refresh my memory.

There are 2 different types of people, those who play the tutorial level and those who don't. I obviously fell into the former category. Okay, to be fair, if it was a game in a series which I had played before, I *might* skip the tutorial level, but I'm pretty sure someone had to spend a good chunk of their life designing and building the thing. The least I could do was spend maybe half an hour tops just to give him/her some spiritual appreciation.

With UX gaining momentum in recent years, all sorts of articles and op-eds about the subject are being published even you scan the words on this page. One of the more popular topics is about the on-boarding process. As someone who has almost a quarter-century worth of video gaming experience, I never really thought twice about this concept of on-boarding. Sure, I played tutorial levels, but just
